hi there if you're like most busy moms
and dads getting a meal on the table for
your family can be difficult some days
wouldn't it be great if you could walk
through the door after work and have
dinner waiting for you well that's what
can happen when you have a crock-pot
sometimes also called a slow cooker
there's nothing like a crock-pot for
making hearty nutritious meals that you
can have on the table within minutes
after you get home that's right many
people already have a crock-pot that
they don't use very much if that's the
case you'll probably want to go find it
after watching this video but we're
going to take this first little bit here
to talk to those of you who don't have a
crock-pot
these tips will help you choose the one
that's just right for you and your
family so what should we look for in a
crock pot crock pots come in different
shapes and sizes and some have many
features so first let's talk about which
size you should get families of four or
more people should probably look for a
six quart crock pot families of two or
three can use a four quart size to cook
food safely a crock pot should be at
least half full so you don't want to get
one that's too large does it matter if
it's round or oval great question the
round ones are great for soups and stews
but the oval crock pot offers more
options because you can get roasts or
even whole chickens into them so if you
have a choice I'd recommend the oval
shape once you've decided on the size
and shape there are other features you
should look for your crock pot should
have a clear snug fitting glass lid so
you can check on the food without taking
it off which lets out steam and slows
the cooking process what's the advantage
of a removable insert for one thing you
can take it out to use on a table
they're also easier to clean the insert
should have large sturdy handles to make
it easy and safe to move from your
counter to the dinner table what about
all these buttons and knobs an indicator
light shows you that the crock pot is
working this could help prevent you from
accidentally leaving it on a
programmable timer can automatically
shift to a keep warm mode as soon as the
time cooking ends if you decide on a
mechanical type remember that they have
adjustable temperature controls but no
timer so you need to turn it off
manually
crockpots with automatic timers range
anywhere from $20 to $200 just be sure
you read the box carefully so you know
exactly what you're getting all right
now for how to use the crock-pot besides
having dinner ready after a busy day
crockpots have another advantage they
cook food slowly at a low temperature
which can help tenderize less expensive
tougher cuts of meat this can help save
you money because you don't have to buy
fancier more expensive cuts is a
crock-pot really safe to cook food in
absolutely between the direct heat long
cooking times and the steam that's
created in the tightly covered pot the
crock-pot is a safe way to cook foods so
what foods can you cook in a crock-pot
the dishes you make in your crock-pot
should have lots of moisture like soups
stews chili spaghetti sauce or roasts
that cook in liquid when you start as
always everything should be clean the
cooker your utensils your workspace and
your hands be sure to wash your hands
before handling any food and during the
preparation process as needed
can you show us how to cook a meal in a
crock-pot I knew you were going to ask
bet let's make a chicken chili in the
crock-pot not only is it easy to make
and delicious but it uses foods that you
can buy with your WIC benefits I've
already cut up my vegetables and chicken
so would you get them out of the
refrigerator for me sure be sure to keep
your perishable foods in the
refrigerator until you're ready to use
them in the crock-pot if you're using
meat or poultry that's been frozen
you have to thought completely in the
refrigerator before putting it in the
crock-pot also if you like to cut up
meat and vegetables in advance like the
night before you're going to cook them
be sure to store them separately in the
refrigerator this will ensure that no
bacteria is present in your ingredients
so first we put in the raw vegetables
peppers
onions carrots when putting your food in
the crock-pot be sure to put the raw
vegetables in first because they cook
more slowly than the meat then I'll toss
in the chicken chunks the beans I'm
using chickpeas kidney beans and black
beans need to be rinsed in cold water
and then put into the crock pot and then
add tomatoes which will add all the
liquid that we need finally we'll
sprinkle the chili powder on the top and
stir it a little bit we'll stir it all
really well later after the raw
vegetables on the bottom have cooked now
we place the lid on securely don't take
it off unless you need to stir the food
or check it for doneness how do we know
what temperature it should be most crock
pots have two or more heat settings your
recipe will tell you whether to cook
your foods at high or low temperature
but as a rule for all day cooking and
less tender meats you'll want to use the
lower setting if you have time in the
morning turn the crock pot on high for
the first hour then turn it to low for
the rest of the cooking time but don't
worry it's safe to cook foods at low for
the whole time that's what I'm going to
do now what happens if the power goes
out while it's cooking you ask great
questions if there's a power outage
while the crock-pot is on and you're not
at home throw away the food even if it
looks done if you are at home you should
finish cooking the ingredients some
other way like on a gas stove or an
outdoor grill or maybe someone else's
house if you are at home and the food
was completely cooked before the power
went out it should be safe for up to two
hours in the cooker with the power off
what about leftovers can i reheat them
in the crock-pot no you really shouldn't
it just takes too long to heat them from
the cold temperature just reheat them
the way you usually do with leftovers on
the stove in a microwave or a regular
oven if you want once the food is hot
you can move it to a preheated crock-pot
but warm until it's time to serve so
I'll just leave my chili to cook when
it's done it can be served in bowls as
it is or if you want you can serve it
with brown rice and a salad to find this
recipe click on the more information
link for this section Bon Appetit